In the last video, we implemented such a getter here.
Now what if we actually wanted to have another getter, let's say?
So in our getters property in the store, we now also have the stringCounter for example where we
take our state and we return our state counter plus clicks to turn it into a string which says five
clicks, two clicks and so on.
So now we get this brand new getter and in AnotherResult, I want to use this,
so here I will quickly wrap my paragraph into a div because again, we may only have one root element
in a component and then we have this number of clicks text here where I want to output my let's say
clicks computed property which I'll create here, clicks and where I then return this.store.getters.stringCounter
.
also don't execute it, just run it like this
and now you see I got my clicks here,
that works.
The problem though is that I now have two computed properties to fetch my state here or to fetch my
getters and if I would add more and more and more getters, I would have to repeat that for every getter,
that is possible but it would be more convenient if vuex would kind of do that automatically and give
me access to all my getters, so that I can conveniently say clicks here or something like that
or stringCounter, whatever and that would automatically execute the right getter without me having
to set up a computed property for that.
Well turns out vuex has a helper method for that we can use.
It has a method which will create all the computed properties we need on its own, for that,
I need to import the helper function from vuex and this helper function is called mapGetters.
Now with this function imported, I now can override my computed properties here and say mapGetters
execute this function of course and this takes an array as an argument and in this array, we simply
specify as strings all the getters we want to use in this component,
so for example if I want to use both getters we have right now, the doubleCounter and the stringCounter,
I would say doubleCounter and also stringCounter, like this.
Now this will in the background automatically create computed properties which also have the names double
counter and stringCounter and map them to the getters, to these functions, to these functions here
in my store. With that, I can now change my template here to use the doubleCounter here and to use the
stringCounter here
and if I save this and reload, we see it still works
but now I'm using mapGetters here.
That really is a better way or a nicer way to save a lot of code and easily get access to our getters
though it also has one downside,
do you see it?
Well what if we wanted to create our own computed functions and mix them with the getters? Right now, map
getters is the whole content of this computed property
so right now we can't add our own computed properties,
that is not really optimal because if
I want to create my own computed property for something totally unrelated to my state maybe,
well then I can do it right now,
thankfully with ES6 which we're able to use in our set up here, we get an easy solution. Let's create
a javascript object again and put mapGetters inside of it,
now this will not work because mapGetters on its own creates an object with all these computed methods
or computed properties which are methods.
Therefore right now what we would do here is have an object which then immediately has an object in
itself, that is not valid code. With ES6 we get this spread operator, the three dots here, the three dots basically
allow us to tell javascript
please pull out all the properties and methods in the object you have here,
remember mapGetters is an object holding all the methods, these mapped methods, these computed properties,
so pull them all out of there and create separate key value pairs for each of them.
So this will now allow us to add all the computed properties which get createed automatically into this
object here,
of computed properties and we could still write our own computed property here and have no issue at all.
So this is a way how we can mix this,
however if we save this and go back to the application, we now see it's broken, at least at the point of time
I do record this.
The problem is if we have a look a look at the console, that these three dots here are unexpected,
so the ES6 compiler we're using here doesn't recognize that. If we have a look at the package.json
file, we see that we're using be babel to compile our ES6 to ES5 code and the presets we loaded here
don't cover this rest and spread operator syntax, so these three dots. Well we can simply add a new package
to get this functionality to work and keep in mind, it's all compiled to valid ES5 code in the end,
so you're not adding something which then wouldn't run in the browser,
it's only that we got more features during development.
So I can install a new development only dependency which is called babel-preset-stage-2
and this will add support for the rest and spread
operator in these three dots we're using.
So with that added, we now have to go to the babelrc file here and there we have to add a new entry
to this array of presets and this entry is simply called stage-2, this new preset we just download.
With that, if we save this and restart our development server here,
we now see that it works again
if I click here
but now with mapGetters to have well, one easy way of getting all these getters and with the three dots
while still being able to create our own computed properties.
So that is a huge improvement,
getting the data from our store through these getters makes sure that there we don't have to rewrite the same
code over and over again and with mapGetters,
it's extremely easy to get easy access to our getters.